docs/README.md, before:

<!---
Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Generating the documentation

To generate the documentation, you first have to build it. Several packages are necessary to build the doc, 
you can install them with the following command, at the root of the code repository:

```bash
pip install -e ".[docs]"
```

Then you need to install our special tool that builds the documentation:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/huggingface/doc-builder
```

---
**NOTE**

You only need to generate the documentation to inspect it locally (if you're planning changes and want to
check how they look before committing for instance). You don't have to commit the built documentation.

---

## Building the documentation

Once you have setup the `doc-builder` and additional packages, you can generate the documentation by 
typing the following command:

```bash
doc-builder build accelerate docs/source/ --build_dir ~/tmp/test-build
```

You can adapt the `--build_dir` to set any temporary folder that you prefer. This command will create it and generate
the MDX files that will be rendered as the documentation on the main website. You can inspect them in your favorite
Markdown editor.

## Previewing the documentation

To preview the docs, first install the `watchdog` module with:

```bash
pip install watchdog
```

Then run the following command:

```bash
doc-builder preview {package_name} {path_to_docs}
```

For example:

```bash
doc-builder preview accelerate docs/source/
```

The docs will be viewable at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). You can also preview the docs once you have opened a PR. You will see a bot add a comment to a link where the documentation with your changes lives.

---
**NOTE**

The `preview` command only works with existing doc files. When you add a completely new file, you need to update `_toctree.yml` & restart `preview` command (`ctrl-c` to stop it & call `doc-builder preview ...` again).

---

## Adding a new element to the navigation bar

Accepted files are Markdown (.md).

Create a file with its extension and put it in the source directory. You can then link it to the toc-tree by putting
the filename without the extension in the [`_toctree.yml`](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate/blob/main/docs/source/_toctree.yml) file.

## Renaming section headers and moving sections

It helps to keep the old links working when renaming the section header and/or moving sections from one document to another. This is because the old links are likely to be used in Issues, Forums, and Social media and it'd make for a much more superior user experience if users reading those months later could still easily navigate to the originally intended information.

Therefore, we simply keep a little map of moved sections at the end of the document where the original section was. The key is to preserve the original anchor.

So if you renamed a section from: "Section A" to "Section B", then you can add at the end of the file:

```
Sections that were moved:

[ <a href="#section-b">Section A</a><a id="section-a"></a> ]
```
and of course, if you moved it to another file, then:

```
Sections that were moved:

[ <a href="../new-file#section-b">Section A</a><a id="section-a"></a> ]
```

Use the relative style to link to the new file so that the versioned docs continue to work.


## Writing Documentation - Specification

The `huggingface/accelerate` documentation follows the
[Google documentation](https://sphinxcontrib-napoleon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/example_google.html) style for docstrings,
although we can write them directly in Markdown.

### Adding a new tutorial

Adding a new tutorial or section is done in two steps:

- Add a new file under `./source`. This file can either be ReStructuredText (.rst) or Markdown (.md).
- Link that file in `./source/_toctree.yml` on the correct toc-tree.

Make sure to put your new file under the proper section. It's unlikely to go in the first section (*Get Started*), so
depending on the intended targets (beginners, more advanced users, or researchers) it should go in sections two, three, or
four.

### Writing source documentation

Values that should be put in `code` should either be surrounded by backticks: \`like so\`. Note that argument names
and objects like True, None, or any strings should usually be put in `code`.

When mentioning a class, function, or method, it is recommended to use our syntax for internal links so that our tool
adds a link to its documentation with this syntax: \[\`XXXClass\`\] or \[\`function\`\]. This requires the class or 
function to be in the main package.

If you want to create a link to some internal class or function, you need to
provide its path. For instance: \[\`utils.gather\`\]. This will be converted into a link with
`utils.gather` in the description. To get rid of the path and only keep the name of the object you are
linking to in the description, add a ~: \[\`~utils.gather\`\] will generate a link with `gather` in the description.

The same works for methods so you can either use \[\`XXXClass.method\`\] or \[~\`XXXClass.method\`\].

#### Defining arguments in a method

Arguments should be defined with the `Args:` (or `Arguments:` or `Parameters:`) prefix, followed by a line return and
an indentation. The argument should be followed by its type, with its shape if it is a tensor, a colon, and its
description:

```
    Args:
        n_layers (`int`): The number of layers of the model.
```

If the description is too long to fit in one line (more than 119 characters in total), another indentation is necessary 
before writing the description after the argument.

Finally, to maintain uniformity if any *one* description is too long to fit on one line, the 
rest of the parameters should follow suit and have an indention before their description.

Here's an example showcasing everything so far:

```
    Args:
        gradient_accumulation_steps (`int`, *optional*, default to 1):
            The number of steps that should pass before gradients are accumulated. A number > 1 should be combined with `Accelerator.accumulate`.
        cpu (`bool`, *optional*):
            Whether or not to force the script to execute on CPU. Will ignore GPU available if set to `True` and force the execution on one process only.
```

For optional arguments or arguments with defaults we follow the following syntax: imagine we have a function with the
following signature:

```
def my_function(x: str = None, a: float = 1):
```

then its documentation should look like this:

```
    Args:
        x (`str`, *optional*):
            This argument controls ... and has a description longer than 119 chars.
        a (`float`, *optional*, defaults to 1):
            This argument is used to ... and has a description longer than 119 chars.
```

Note that we always omit the "defaults to \`None\`" when None is the default for any argument. Also note that even
if the first line describing your argument type and its default gets long, you can't break it on several lines. You can
however write as many lines as you want in the indented description (see the example above with `input_ids`).

#### Writing a multi-line code block

Multi-line code blocks can be useful for displaying examples. They are done between two lines of three backticks as usual in Markdown:


````
```python
# first line of code
# second line
# etc
```
````

#### Writing a return block

The return block should be introduced with the `Returns:` prefix, followed by a line return and an indentation.
The first line should be the type of the return, followed by a line return. No need to indent further for the elements
building the return.

Here's an example of a single value return:

```
    Returns:
        `List[int]`: A list of integers in the range [0, 1] --- 1 for a special token, 0 for a sequence token.
```

Here's an example of a tuple return, comprising several objects:

```
    Returns:
        `tuple(torch.FloatTensor)` comprising various elements depending on the configuration ([`BertConfig`]) and inputs:
        - ** loss** (*optional*, returned when `masked_lm_labels` is provided) `torch.FloatTensor` of shape `(1,)` --
          Total loss is the sum of the masked language modeling loss and the next sequence prediction (classification) loss.
        - **prediction_scores** (`torch.FloatTensor` of shape `(batch_size, sequence_length, config.vocab_size)`) --
          Prediction scores of the language modeling head (scores for each vocabulary token before SoftMax).
```

## Styling the docstring

We have an automatic script running with the `make style` comment that will make sure that:
- the docstrings fully take advantage of the line width
- all code examples are formatted using black, like the code of the Transformers library

This script may have some weird failures if you made a syntax mistake or if you uncover a bug. Therefore, it's
recommended to commit your changes before running `make style`, so you can revert the changes done by that script
easily.

## Writing documentation examples

The syntax for Example docstrings can look as follows:

```
    Example:

    ```python
    >>> import time
    >>> from accelerate import Accelerator
    >>> accelerator = Accelerator()
    >>> if accelerator.is_main_process:
    ...     time.sleep(2)
    >>> else:
    ...     print("I'm waiting for the main process to finish its sleep...")
    >>> accelerator.wait_for_everyone()
    >>> # Should print on every process at the same time
    >>> print("Everyone is here")
    ```
```

The docstring should give a minimal, clear example of how the respective function 
is to be used in inference and also include the expected (ideally sensible)
output.
Often, readers will try out the example before even going through the function 
or class definitions. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that the example 
works as expected.

Commit message:

test_lca_code_editing__code-editing-metrics-x54806a5029590475__id_127

docs/README.md, after:

<!---
Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in Args:
    gradient_accumulatiMultiThe first line should be the type of the return, followed by a line return. No need to indent further for the elements building the return.

Here's an example of a single value return:e code blocks can be useful for displaying examples. They are done between two lines of three backticks as usual in Markdown:

t`, *optional*, default to 1):
        The number of steps that should pass before gradients are accumulated. A number > 1 should be combined with `Accelerator.accumulate`.
    cpu (`bool`, *optional*):
        Whether or not to force the script to execute on CPU. Will ignore GPU availability if set to `True` and force the execution on one process only.iance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Generating the documentation

To generate the documentation, you first have to build it. Several packages are necessary to build the doc, 
you can install them with the following command, at the root of the code repository:

```bash
pip install -e ".[docs]"
```

Then you need to install our special tool that builds the documentation:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/huggingface/doc-builder
```

---
**NOTE**

You only need to generate the documentation to inspect it locally (if you're planning changes and want to
check how they look before committing for instance). You don't have to commit the built documentation.

---

## Building the documentation

Once you have setup the `doc-builder` and additional packages, you can generate the documentation by 
typing the following command:

```bash
doc-builder build accelerate docs/source/ --build_dir ~/tmp/test-build
```

You can adapt the `--build_dir` to set any temporary folder that you prefer. This command will create it and generate
the MDX files that will be rendered as the documentation on the main website. You can inspect them in your favorite
Markdown editor.

## Previewing the documentation

To preview the docs, first install the `watchdog` module with:

```bash
pip install watchdog
```

Then run the following command:

```bash
doc-builder preview {package_name} {path_to_docs}
```

For example:

```bash
doc-builder preview accelerate docs/source/
```

The docs will be viewable at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). You can also preview the docs once you have opened a PR. You will see a bot add a comment to a link where the documentation with your changes lives.

---
**NOTE**

The `preview` command only works with existing doc files. When you add a completely new file, you need to update `_toctree.yml` & restart `preview` command (`ctrl-c` to stop it & call `doc-builder preview ...` again).

---

## Adding a new element to the navigation bar

Accepted files are Markdown (.md).

Create a file with its extension and put it in the source directory. You can then link it to the toc-tree by putting
the filename without the extension in the [`_toctree.yml`](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate/blob/main/docs/source/_toctree.yml) file.

## Renaming section headers and moving sections

It helps to keep the old links working when renaming the section header and/or moving sections from one document to another. This is because the old links are likely to be used in Issues, Forums, and Social media and it'd make for a much more superior user experience if users reading those months later could still easily navigate to the originally intended information.

Therefore, we simply keep a little map of moved sections at the end of the document where the original section was. The key is to preserve the original anchor.

So if you renamed a section from: "Section A" to "Section B", then you can add at the end of the file:

```
Sections that were moved:

[ <a href="#section-b">Section A</a><a id="section-a"></a> ]
```
and of course, if you moved it to another file, then:

```
Sections that were moved:

[ <a href="../new-file#section-b">Section A</a><a id="section-a"></a> ]
```

Use the relative style to link to the new file so that the versioned docs continue to work.


## Writing Documentation - Specification

The `huggingface/accelerate` documentation follows the
[Google documentation](https://sphinxcontrib-napoleon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/example_google.html) style for docstrings,
although we can write them directly in Markdown.

### Adding a new tutorial

Adding a new tutorial or section is done in two steps:

- Add a new file under `./source`. This file can either be ReStructuredText (.rst) or Markdown (.md).
- Link that file in `./source/_toctree.yml` on the correct toc-tree.

Make sure to put your new file under the proper section. It's unlikely to go in the first section (*Get Started*), so
depending on the intended targets (beginners, more advanced users, or researchers) it should go in sections two, three, or
four.

### Writing source documentation

Values that should be put in `code` should either be surrounded by backticks: \`like so\`. Note that argument names
and objects like True, None, or any strings should usually be put in `code`.

When mentioning a class, function, or method, it is recommended to use our syntax for internal links so that our tool
adds a link to its documentation with this syntax: \[\`XXXClass\`\] or \[\`function\`\]. This requires the class or 
function to be in the main package.

If you want to create a link to some internal class or function, you need to
provide its path. For instance: \[\`utils.gather\`\]. This will be converted into a link with
`utils.gather` in the description. To get rid of the path and only keep the name of the object you are
linking to in the description, add a ~: \[\`~utils.gather\`\] will generate a link with `gather` in the description.

The same works for methods so you can either use \[\`XXXClass.method\`\] or \[~\`XXXClass.method\`\].

#### Defining arguments in a method

Arguments should be defined with the `Args:` (or `Arguments:` or `Parameters:`) prefix, followed by a line return and
an indentation. The argument should be followed by its type, with its shape if it is a tensor, a colon, and its
description:

```
    Args:
        n_layers (`int`): The number of layers of the model.
```

If the description is too long to fit in one line (more than 119 characters in total), another indentation is necessary 
before writing the description after the argument.

Finally, to maintain uniformity if any *one* description is too long to fit on one line, the 
rest of the parameters should follow suit and have an indention before their description.

Here's an example showcasing everything so far:

```
    Args:
        gradient_accumulation_steps (`int`, *optional*, default to 1):
            The number of steps that should pass before gradients are accumulated. A number > 1 should be combined with `Accelerator.accumulate`.
        cpu (`bool`, *optional*):
            Whether or not to force the script to execute on CPU. Will ignore GPU available if set to `True` and force the execution on one process only.
```

For optional arguments or arguments with defaults we follow the following syntax: imagine we have a function with the
following signature:

```
def my_function(x: str = None, a: float = 1):
```

then its documentation should look like this:

```
    Args:
        x (`str`, *optional*):
            This argument controls ... and has a description longer than 119 chars.
        a (`float`, *optional*, defaults to 1):
            This argument is used to ... and has a description longer than 119 chars.
```

Note that we always omit the "defaults to \`None\`" when None is the default for any argument. Also note that even
if the first line describing your argument type and its default gets long, you can't break it on several lines. You can
however write as many lines as you want in the indented description (see the example above with `input_ids`).

#### Writing a multi-line code block

Multi-line code blocks can be useful for displaying examples. They are done between two lines of three backticks as usual in Markdown:


````
```python
# first line of code
# second line
# etc
```
````

#### Writing a return block

The return block should be introduced with the `Returns:` prefix, followed by a line return and an indentation.
The first line should be the type of the return, followed by a line return. No need to indent further for the elements
building the return.

Here's an example of a single value return:

```
    Returns:
        `List[int]`: A list of integers in the range [0, 1] --- 1 for a special token, 0 for a sequence token.
```

Here's an example of a tuple return, comprising several objects:

```
    Returns:
        `tuple(torch.FloatTensor)` comprising various elements depending on the configuration ([`BertConfig`]) and inputs:
        - ** loss** (*optional*, returned when `masked_lm_labels` is provided) `torch.FloatTensor` of shape `(1,)` --
          Total loss is the sum of the masked language modeling loss and the next sequence prediction (classification) loss.
        - **prediction_scores** (`torch.FloatTensor` of shape `(batch_size, sequence_length, config.vocab_size)`) --
          Prediction scores of the language modeling head (scores for each vocabulary token before SoftMax).
```

## Styling the docstring

We have an automatic script running with the `make style` comment that will make sure that:
- the docstrings fully take advantage of the line width
- all code examples are formatted using black, like the code of the Transformers library

This script may have some weird failures if you made a syntax mistake or if you uncover a bug. Therefore, it's
recommended to commit your changes before running `make style`, so you can revert the changes done by that script
easily.

## Writing documentation examples

The syntax for Example docstrings can look as follows:

```
    Example:

    ```python
    >>> import time
    >>> from accelerate import Accelerator
    >>> accelerator = Accelerator()
    >>> if accelerator.is_main_process:
    ...     time.sleep(2)
    >>> else:
    ...     print("I'm waiting for the main process to finish its sleep...")
    >>> accelerator.wait_for_everyone()
    >>> # Should print on every process at the same time
    >>> print("Everyone is here")
    ```
```

The docstring should give a minimal, clear example of how the respective function 
is to be used in inference and also include the expected (ideally sensible)
output.
Often, readers will try out the example before even going through the function 
or class definitions. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that the example 
works as expected.
